Fred D. Martin XC Invidational

About the Race
	The FDM is a Middle School XC Invitational hosted by St. Peter Lutheran School, Arlington Heights, IL in honor of Fred D. Martin, a long time Athletic Director at St. Peter. This invitational consists of Public and Private in the chicago land area.   

	In the past 4+ years, over 775 runners have participated in the event making it one of the largest MS XC invitationals in the state.  There are 6 different races (3 boys, 3 girls) from the highly competitive 2 mile race,  the moderately competitive 1.5 mile race, and finally the 1 mile open race. 



Race Day Information
	Date/Time - Saturday, Oct 3rd, 2015, 8:00 am

	Location - Melas Park, 1400 W. Central Road, Mount Prospect, IL

	Parking - It is suggested that you park in the Bosch Co. parking lot, which is adjacent to Melas park on the west side of the park, and provides an entrace to the park from the parking lot. 

	Parking - There is very limitd parking at Melas park and fills up very quickly. Please park at the Bosch Co. parking lot. 

	Course Maps - include links to course maps

	Concessions - Food and beverages will be sold by the St. Peter Athletic Booster Club located near the park entrance from the Bosch parking lot. 

	Rest rooms - Men’s and Women’s bathrooms will be available in the Park District concessions building, by the ball fields. Please keep in mind the park will be very busy that day. 
	
	Inclimate Weather & Race Cancellation - Any decision to cancel the meet will be made at the park on Saturday morning. The rain date for this year’s meet is Sunday, October 4th, with the first race starting at noon.

	Race Day Schedule
	
		Note: All times are tentative. After the first race, subsequent races will start as quickly as possible. The awards ceremony will start approximately 15 minutes after the last race has completed. 

		8:00 - 9:00 AM Open Course Walk (9:00 am Coaches Meeting)
		9:15 AM Girls 1.5 mile run (Grades 6-8 / Up to 20 Entries)
		9:35 AM Boys 1.5 mile run (Grades 6-8 / Up to 20 Entries)
		9:55 AM Girls 2 mile run (Grades 6-8 / Up to 15 “Top Runner” Entries)
		10:25 AM Boys 2 mile run (Grades 6-8 / Up to 15 “Top Runner” Entries)
		10:55 AM Girls 1 mile Open run (Grades 4-6 / Unlimited Entries)
		11:15 AM Boys 1 mile Open run (Grades 4-6 / Unlimited Entries)
		12:00 Awards


Registration Information

	Safe your spot! Coaches, please email Zach Bickel at zbickel@fullifeinchrist.org By ??? date ??? to confirm your participation in this year's event.  After you confirm your participation, you will receive a user name and password that must be used to logon to the web site to register your team. 

	Cost (per registered runners)
		- 1 – 10  Runners = $50
		- 11 – 20 Runners = $75
		- 21+  Runners = $100

	Link and Deadline - Coaches must register their teams/runners using the online system by midnight September 28th, 2015 for any team/runner to participate. There is no race day registration.

	Registration Issues? Please email Tom Hoffman @ purduetom90@gmail.com if you have issues with your username or password when trying to regsiter your team. 
	
	FDM Meet Shirts - 2015 FDM XC Invite long sleeve shirts, short sleeve shirts, and hooded sweatshirts are available for order through the St. Peter online store:  http://www.waistup.com/Saint_Peter_Saints  

	Shirts need to be purchased online before noon on Tuesday, September 29th and they will be available for pick up at the Concession stand on race day.

	* The intention of this meet is for the 2 mile races to be the most competive races.Therefore, in the spirit of good sportsmanship, coaches, please place your best runners in the 2 mile races. Place your next tier of runners in the 1.5 mile races, and all other runners in the 1.0 mile race.



	

Race Day Instructions - Coaches and Runners

	Tent Setup Instructions!
	
	Runners must wear the BIB that has been assigned to them. Runners not wearing BIBs, or the correct BIB, will not be counted in the results.  The BIBS are a key part of the timing and scoring. It only takes one runner to not follow the rules and it mess up the time and place for all runners finishing after him/her. 

	Do NOT remove the pull tag from the bottom of the BIB before or during the race. The pull tag is removed by a race official after a runner finishes and it is used to identify the runner's finishing place and finishing time in the race. 

	BIBS are valid for one race and runners can run in at most one race.

	At the start of a race, if any runner falls in approximately the first 100 meters of the race, the race starter will fire the gun a second time (or blow the whistle) and the race will be restarted. 

	Special Runner Instructions:
		Runner's caught cheating or cutting the course will be disqualified
		After finishing, runners should maintain finish order and keep moving through the finish chute.
		Do NOT hang on the ropes in the finish chute. They were not designed to support the weight of people. 
		Do NOT leave the finish chute until the end and after a race official has removed the pull tag from your bib and placed it on the stringer.
	 

Awards & Results

	Team Scoring Methodolody - Cross Country displacement scoring will be used for team scoring. In summary, 5 or more runners are needed to count in team scoring. A school with less than 5 runners does not count in the team scoring. The top 5 runners count towards your team's total. Runners 6 and 7 act as pushers for other team's runners. Runner 8+ do not count in team scoring.

	Individual awards will be given to the top 15 runners in each race. 

	Team Trophies will be awarded to the top 3 teams in the 1.5 and 2 mile races. No team trophies will be awarded for the 1 mile races.  

	Results
		2015 (link)
		2014 (link)
		2013 (link)
		2012 (link)



